Granddad’s Birthday Party
Today, members of the Brown family have come together. They have come together for a birthday party. It is Granddad's birthday. Today the Brown family is having a birthday party for Granddad.

All are here for the birthday party. Granddad and Grandma are here. Their son, Marcus, and
his wife, are also here. Their grandchildren, Greg and Grace, are here too. Uncle John is
here as well. He has brought along his camera. All are having fun.

Granddad gets many gifts. Grandma gives him a pen. Grace gives him a book. Greg gives him a mango. Each person gives him a kiss as well.

It is now time to stick the cake. Granddad sticks the cake with Grandma. He then gives
her a kiss on her cheek. All cheer, as everybody is so happy.
 
"Come now, everybody," says Grace's father, "let us have a family picture. Uncle John
will take it."

They all get together for the family picture. Greg does not want his picture taken. He feels a bit shy. He is missing a front tooth.

"Come on, Greg," says his sister Grace. “you won't break the camera.” "Yes, Greg, all will be wel1,” says Uncle John. 

Greg joins them for the picture. "Okay, all smile now," says Uncle John "Yes. That's it. Lovely." Click! goes the camera. The picture is, taken. It is a birthday party they will always remember.


Hoping for Fine Weather
Junior wakes up early this morning. He wants to go outdoors very much. He plans to play cricket with his friends today. He hopes that the weather will be fine.

Yesterday's weather was stormy. There was very heavy rain all day. There was also much thunder and lightning. Junior and his sisters screamed whenever they heard the thunder. One of his sisters even began to cry.

The stormy weather made most people stay indoors. Junior did not like the weather at all.
He and his friends were not able to practice for today's cricket match.

This morning, Junior hopes that there will be no thunder, lightning or rain. Junior hope for sunny weather. He wants to play cricket very much.

Junior gets out of his bed. He kneels and says his morning prayers. He asks God to keep him safe during the day ahead. He also prays for good weather. He prays, too, that his team will win the cricket match.

Junior leaves his bedroom. He goes into the yard. It is a fine day. There is sunshine all around. There is neither thunder nor lightning, neither is the sky cloudy. The sky is blue. There are only a few patches of white cloud. The weather is fine and Junior is happy.

The fine weather continues for the rest of the day. Everyone is able to go outdoors. Junior
meets with his friends Fred, Frank and Francis.

Junior and his friends play cricket outdoors. They have great fun. Best of all they win the cricket match.


The Dog and the Bone.
Once upon a time, a dog stole a bone and ran away with it. Soon, he came to a river. There was a wooden bridge across the river. The dog began to cross the wooden bridge.

When he was halfway across, he stopped. He looked down into the water. There he saw another dog in the clear water. This dog also carried a bone.

He said to himself that he must have the other dog's bone too! He snapped at the dog he
saw. He hoped to rob the dog of its bone.

As he opened his mouth to snap, out fell his bone. It fell into the water below. It sank down to the river bed. The river bed is the bottom of the river.

It was only then that the greedy dog came to know the truth. There was no other dog with a bone.

He mistook his reflection for another dog. The water was like a mirror. He was seeing himself all along in the river. There was no other dog with a bone, in the water.

The greedy dog's face grew sad as he saw the bone sink. Tears fell from his eyes. He cried and cried. Greediness had made him lose his bone. He walked away very depressed. This means he was very sad.

That day, he learnt a lesson. It is not wise to be greedy. You could-end up losing all that 30 you have. We, too, can learn from this lesson.


Water
Mark is drinking a glass of water. This is the third glass of water he is drinking for the day. His sister Carol has noted this. She looks at him and says:

"Mark, I am sure this is the third glass of water you are drinking for the day, isn’t that so?"

"Of course, and I have five more glasses of water to drink, before the end of the day."
"Are you Crazy, Mark? That makes eight glasses of water in one day!”


Miss Meena’s House
Everyone in the village knew Miss Meena. Miss Meena was the oldest woman in the village. Some people said she was eighty years old. Yet, each day she left her home and walked slowly to the place where she once worked. 

Her back was bent. so she took almost an hour to reach her old work-place. There she did nothing but sit all ay. At the end of the week, she was given a small sum of twenty dollars. She was also given lunch each day. At about three o'clock, she left for her home.

One day, while she was out, a \strong storm came. There were some very strong winds and heavy rain. Miss Meena's hoμse was blown to the ground.

When she got home, Miss Meena was in shock. She looked in disbelief. How she cried
and cried!

Many of the villagers came over to cheer her up. One family gave her a place to stay, until
her house was rebuilt. Other families planned to help her rebuild her house.

That weekend, many families came  together to rebuild Miss Meena's house. Some
brought tools such as hammers, forks and shovels. They used these tools to rebuild the house. 

That entire weekend, they worked hard at rebuilding Miss Meena's house. All Miss Meena did was to sit like a queen , and give oders.

“Come.on, Nippy, keep at it. You Froggy, don't hit your hand with the hammer."

On and on she talked. The villagers did not mind her talk at all. They enjoyed working for
her. She was the favourite old woman in the village. She took care of many of them, while
they were children. She had even cared for some of them, while they were babies.
.
Miss Meena continued giving orders. "Don't you forget to paint the house. I want a
pink roof. Don’t forget to plant a big green lawn." This was greeted with much laughter.

"Wait!" she said, "I want my window painted yellow." More laughter.

By the end of the weekend, Miss. Meena's house was rebuilt. She was very, very, happy· indeed.


Chain of Gold
We are the, children of the world; We are more precious than pure gold. A chain we make both boy' and girl; I Giving much hope to trouble world. With smiling faces, And hearts not cold; We are, indeed, A chain of Gold.


Living Things Need Each Other
Where is air? Air is everywhere. What is air? Air is made up of many gases that are invisible. These gases cannot be seen. Gases that make up air, therefore, cannot be seen.

There are many gases that make up air. Among these are two important gases, oxygen and carbon dioxide. These two gases are very important to people, animals, and plants. People, animals and plants are, of course, living things.

People breathe in oxygen and breathe out carbon dioxide. Men, women, and children breathe in oxygen. Men, women and children breathe out carbon dioxide.

Animals also breathe in oxygen and breathe out carbon dioxide. Lions, cows and elephants breathe in oxygen and breather out carbon dioxide.

But do you know that people and animals depend on plants for the oxygen they breathe in? Do you know that plants depend on the carbon dioxide that people and animals breathe out? 

That is indeed so. During the day, plants breathe in carbon. dioxide and breathe out oxygen. They breathe in carbon dioxide through tiny holes in their leaves. They then give off oxygen which people and animals breathe in. 

People and animals need plants for food as well. People get food from plants. Many animals eat grasses daily to live. Cows, zebras, horses, all get their food from plants. People
also need animals for food. People eat the meat of animals for food. 

People, animals and plant do need each other to live. Think about it.


Mr. Agouti and Mr. Dog
Once upon a time, a few animals planned a party. However, only animals with horns were invited. The goat, the cow, the ox and the deer were all invited to the party.

Mr. Agouti and Mr. Dog, of course, were not invited. They were very displeased. They
were very unhappy. They wanted to go to the party very much, but could not. They would not be able to enjoy the music of the party. They would not be able to enjoy the fine food at the party.

Best of all, the party was to be held on a nearby island. That meant the animals would have to get across by boat. Mr. Agouti loved boatrides and he just did not want to miss this.

So Mr. Agouti and Mr. Dog thought and thought. How could they get to the party? Suddenly, Mr. Dog came up with a smart idea. He shared the idea quickly with Mr. Agouti. 
Mr. Dog: I just got a great idea, Agouti. Mr. Agouti: What is it? Let me hear it quickly. Mr. Dog: Since it is a party for animals with horns, I will get me a pair of horns. Mr. Agouti:  Where will you get a pair of horns? Mr. Dog: At the animals graveyard, of course. There are lots of bulls' horns there. Mr. Agouti: But what will you do with the horns? Mr. Dog: I will stick them on and Party, here I come! Mr. Agouti: But what about me, Mr. Dog? Mr. Dog:
I am sorry, but you are too small for the idea. You will have to stay back. Mr. Agouti: Oh well, I guess that's the way friends treat friends.

Mr. Dog went ahead with his idea. However, without showing it, Mr. Agouti was very jealous. At last, it was time to get on the boat. Mr. Dog, with his two horns stuck to his head, got on board quickly.

Soon, the boat set sail. Mr. Agouti felt very hurt and upset. He could take it no more. He
decided to betray Mr. Dog. He shouted loudly so from the beach.

Mr. Agouti: Captain Goat! Captain Goat! There's a traitor on the boat. Examine the horns! Captain Goat: What did you say there?
Mr. Agouti: There's a traitor on the boat. 
Examine the horns. Captain Goat: Who is the traitor? I see none. Mr. Agouti: There's a traitor on the boat. Examine the horns.

Captain Goat stopped the boat and began to examine the horns. He told each animal to say the password. The password was the special sound each animal made.

Captain Goat: You, Madam Goat, say your password. Madam Goat: Mey! Mey! Captain Goat: Good. Now you, Mr. Sheep, your password. Mr. Sheep: Baa! Baa! Baa! Captain, Goat: You, Madam cow, what's your password? Madam Cow: Moo! Moo! Moo! Captain Goat: And you, Mr. Whatever you are, what's your password? Mr. Dog: Baa! Moo! Baa! Moo!
Baa! Moo! Captain Goat: Baa, Moo, come here! Let me 'examine those horns. Mr. Dog: I give up. Woof! Woof! Woof! Captain Goat: So you are the traitor. Take this and that. 

Captain Goat gave Mr. Dog two taps and threw him overboard. Mr. Dog swam for his
life. As he swam, his only thought was how to get even with Mr. Agouti.


The Life Cycle of a Mosquito
Karen goes outdoors into her backyard She goes in search of her netball. She sees the net ball. It is near an old bucket. Karen bends down to pick up the ball. Suddenly, a cloud of mosquitoes flies past her face. Karen is scared for a short while. She picks up her netball: As she does, she sees that the bucket is half-filled with water. In it, she also sees a number of worm-like things. They are wiggling around.

"Mummy, mummy” she calls to her mother." What is it, Karen?" answers her mother from the house. "Come see this, mummy. Come quickly!" Karen calls out.

Karen's mother gets there quickly. "My goodness ... that is why we have been having, so many mosquitoes lately," she says.

"What are these things, mummy?" Karen asks.

"They are baby mosquitoes. I must get rid of them.” Mummy empties the bucket. 
Karen's mother does the correct thing. By emptying the water from the bucket, the baby mosquitoes die. They cannot live out of water. 

There are a few other things you should know about mosquitoes. There are four stages in the life cycle of a mosquito. They are the egg, larva, pupa and adult. 

The first stage in the life cycle of a mosquito is the egg. The second stage is the larva. The third stage is the pupa. The fourth stage is the adult mosquito
.
In the first stage; the female mosquitoes lay their eggs in still water. They do not lay their eggs in running water.

From the eggs come the larva This is the second stage. The larva, is the small worm-like thing, seen wiggling about in the still water. 

After the larva, comes. the pupa. At this stage, the pupa clings to the top of, the water. It rests and breathes. The pupa also now begins to grow wings and legs. 
When the wings and legs are fully grown, the mosquito has reached its last stage, the adult. It is now ready to fly off as an adult mosquito.

The adult mosquitoes can be very harmful to us. We should, therefore, do all we can to keep them out of our surroundings.


Jamila and Her Dogs
Jamila sits patting the head of her favourite dog, Finder. As she does so, she looks lovingly
at her five other pet dogs. Like Finder, they are all small dogs. They will grow no bigger.

Finder is a black poodle. Tiny is also a poodle. Tiny is a grey poodle. Both Finder and
Tiny have coats. Their hair is very long. They also have very long and shaggy ears.

The other four dogs are Pompeks. Three of them are light brown in colour. These are
Jessie, Jimmy and Jenny. The other Pompek is dark brown. She is called Tuffy. All the
Pompeks have fluffy coats.

Jamila is quite happy. When she plays with her dogs, she is never unhappy. Jamila
cares for her dogs very much. She feeds them each afternoon. She feeds them milk, when
they are young. She feeds them dog chow, when they grow older.

Jamila goes through the following stages in feeding her dogs. Each afternoon, she washes their bowls first. She then puts the dog chow into a bucket. Afterwards, she adds water
to the dog chow. When the dog chow gets soft, she serves it to her six dogs.

Jamila also takes time to bathe her dogs. Her dogs are never left unclean. She bathes
them every two weeks, on the weekend. She also loves groom her dogs. She likes much care in combing and brushing their hair. Their hair looks smooth, after they are groomed.

Jamila’s dogs are well cared-for if they are ill. She takes them herself to the vet. She then  attends to them, until they are well again.

Indeed, Jamila loves her dogs very much. They are truly her best friends.


Paul Rushes to School
He has only fifteen minutes to get to school.
Suddenly, he remembers something. He has
left his timetable at his bedside. Paul rushes
back inside. He takes up his timetable and puts
it in his bookbag.Soon, he is on his way again.

Paul, knows that his timetable is very important.
It tells him the,subjects he has eachday.

Paul is lucky today. He gets a maxi-taxi
quickly. As he sits in the maxi-taxi, he takes out
his timetable. He wants to be sure which
subject he is having during the morning.

Paul studies his timetable carefully. He
sees that he has mathematics after roll call. Paul
likes doing mathematics. He does well, when
his teacher gives a test. Still, Paul does not
Want to be late forn mathematics. His teacher
is very strict.

Paul looks over the timetable again. He
see that he has five periods of reading for the week. He likes reading very much. He reads
well.

Paul puts his timetable back into his
bookbag. Then it happens. The maxi-taxi stalls. Paul is worried. He looks in disbelief at the driver.

Paul thinks of getting into another maxitaxi.
But he is not allowed to do so. The driver
insists that he stays. He says,that the maxi-taxi
will start shortly. It does.

Within seconds, the maxi-taxi is on its
way. Paul gets to school just as the bell rings.
He is, of course, very happy.


The Bamboo Cutters
Troy is sitting on the river bank. He looks with interest, as two men are cutting a bamboo
stool. They are in search of a long, straight ,
bamboo. To get such a bamboo, they cut those around it.

They finally get the bamboo they want.
But to Troy's dismay, they leave the other
bamboo stems lymg across the river. Troy finds this finds this disgraceful.
"Sirs," calls out Troy politely. "Could, you
please remove the bamboo lying across the river?"

"Listen, little boy, why don't your mind
your own business?" responds one of the men
rudely.

"But sir ..... It is my business." says Troy.
"If you leave the bamboo there, it will cause
flooding. When the heavy rains come, the
bamboo will block the river's course."

"Listen, little boy. Firstly, don't 'sir' me.
I'm not your teacher. Furthermore, school is
on holidays."

"Kyah, Kyah" laughs the man's friend.
"Tell him, Johnny! Tell him!"

"Mister Johnny, I don't mean to be rude but
you must not leave the bamboo stems there. If
you do, you will create problems for the people
living further down the river," Troy points out.

"In what way, nice boy?" asks Johnny.

"Mister Johnny, we are now in the month of May. In a few weeks, the heavy rains will
come. The river wjll be blocked. People living
further down the valley will get their homes
flooded," answers Troy.

"Well, good for them. Who told them to
live so close to the river?"

"But sir ..... you are not reasoning .... " pleads
Troy.

In soite of his pleas, the men leave the bamboo stems lying across the river. Troy tries to move one. He toils and toils but is unable to
move a bamboo stem. He is only nine years old
and a bit small for his age.

As the men walk away, tears come to his
eyes.

"Why?... Why?" he mutters to himself,
between the tears.

The selfishness of the men has truly made
Troy sad. All his pleas have gone unheeded.
How he wished that they were more caring!


The Keskidee
I know you by your yellow vest,
You little keskidee,
That suits so well that clean
That clings so close to thee.

The little ring upon your head
That forms a little hat,
Why, if you stood with all the birds,
I'd know you just by that!

And if for fun you hide yourself
So that I could not see,
I'd know you too, you pretty thing,
When you say "Keskidee!"


The world of Animals
"All right, children," says Miss Peters.
"Today, in our science lesson, we shall look at
animals. Who would like to give an example of
an animal?"

Almost everyone in the class raises a hand.
"Yes, Kamla," says Miss Peters.
"A dog, Miss," says Kamla.
"That's right, Kamla," responds Miss
Peters.

"Choy, what is an example of an animal?"

"A cow, Miss," Choy answers.

"Very good, Choy," says Miss Peters.

"Sammy, can you give us an example of
an animal?" asks Miss Peters.

"A mosquito, Miss," answers Sammy.

All the pupils laugh.

"Why are you all laughing?" asks
Miss Peters.
"Sammy is correct. A mosquito is an animal."

"But Miss, a mosquito is an insect,"
protests Kamla.

"I agree Kamla, but it is also an animal. In
fact, all insects are animals." Miss Peters
explains.

The children are silent. Not one of them
knew this before. Miss Peters, of course, is
correct. The animal world is very large. Besides
dogs, cows and mosquitoes, there are other animals.
Birds, fishes, frogs, snakes, monkeys,
squirrels, mice and earthworms are all animals.

Some animals are ugly to look at but some
are quite pretty. Many birds are pretty. Some
birds are prettier. The prettiest birds are often
found in the deep forest. The parrot is one of the prettiest birds found in the forest.

There are many other interesting animals
in the animal world. Among them are animals which arc not easily secn by other animals
which might cat them . One such animal is lhe
praying mantis. The praying mantis looks very
much likc a green leaf. Therefore, animals in
earch of food by-pass it. The grass hopper is
another such animal. The grass hopper escapes
its enemies, by hiding against a large green leaf.
Even people sometimes do not see it, as it hides.

Some animals hide, by changing their
colour to look like their surroundings. The tree
lizard, commonly known as the 'twenty-four
hours', is one such animal. The 'twenty-four
hours' lizard can change its colour to suit the
surroundings, in which it finds itself.

Animals, like the praying • mantis
grasshopper and 'twenty-four hours', use
camouflage to hide themselves. As we have
seen, camouflage is a means of looking like
your surroundings. Isn't the world of animals interesting?

Friends
Today Alan is in great distress. He is in a
lot of trouble. He has lost his wallet with
$5.00. This means that he cannot buy
anything during recess. Even worse, he has no
money to travel home.

Alan looks a sad sight, as he walks across
the school grounds. He keeps searching his
pockets over and over. He hopes that the wallet
and the $5.00 will be in one of the pockets. But
his pockets are empty. There is no wallet.

Boyo sees Alan from afar in his
distress. He hurries over to Alan.

"What's wrong, Alan?" Boyo enquires.

"You wouldn 't believe this, boy, but I seem
to have lost my money," answers Alan.

"How much money did you lose?"
enquires Boyo.

"Every cent. I lost my wallet with $5.00," he
responds.

"Well these things happen. Perhaps you
might have left it at home."

"1 doubt it... 1 just don't know where it is."

"What was the money to do?" asks
Boyo now.

"Boyo, that was money to buy something
during recess and $2.00 to travel home by
maxi-taxi," says Alan.

"Look. Listen to what I'll do. 1 will share my
$5.00 with you during recess, and this evening
we'll walk home together," says Boyo.

"Are you sure ... Are you sure you want to
walk all the way to town?"

"Why not... That's what friends are for. I
know you would do the same for me," says Boyo.

"I'll tell you what. Here is my $5.00. Go
and buy a mauby and doubles for both of us."

"Okay .. if you say so," responds Alan and hurries off to buy the doubles and mauby.

What a friend! Isn't Boyo a great friend?
Do you have a friend at school? Do you have a
friend at home? Do you have friends on your
street?

Who is a friend?

A friend is a person with several fine
qualities. He or she is always kind. He or she
is very helpful, especially in times of need. He
or she always understands you.

Your friend may like the same things like
you do. Both of you may like to play the same
games. Both of you may like to eat the same
foods. Both of you may even go to the same school.

Yes , Alan and Boyo are best friends. They
share with each other. They care for each other.
They do lots of things together. They are,
indeed, great friends.


Things to Know About Plays
A play is a story that is meant to be acted
out or read aloud. Reading a play can be lots of
fun. So too, acting out a part.
Before you read a play, here are a few
things you need to know about a play. A play
usually has the following:

Characters
The characters in
a play are roles
played by various persons.
Here is a character on the right.
What kind of character
do you believe he will be, based on how he
looks?

Setting
Every play
has a setting. The
setting is the
place where the
play is set.

Storyteller or narrrator
The storyteller
or narrator is the
person who tells the
story during a play.
He or she tells the
story in parts. The
storyteller or narrator
helps the audience
understand the story
being acted out.

Dialogue
When a
character talks,
the words they
say are called
dialogue. Here
is an example of
characters and
dialogue below

Bat: Who says I am blind?
Owl: I did. You are as blind as
a bat.

Script
The script is the text or printed words of
the play. People read a script to learn their part
in a play.


The Boastful Oak Tree
Once in a garden, a toad, a peacock, an oak
tree and a fern had a discussion. They talked
about each other.

Peacock: Hi there, ugly toad, why did you
corne into the garden?

Toad: I came to catch the flies of the
forest.

Peacock: No. You came to see me. You
came to admire my handsome
plumes .... didn't you?

Toad: Well ... yes ... but I also came to
get as many of the rain flies as I
could.

Peacock: But the rain has just ended.
The rain flies are now coming
out.

Toad: That's exactly why I am here.

Peacock: While you mighty, ugly toad
catch your flies, permit me to
show my handsome plumage.

Fern: What a show-off! What a big
show-off!

Oak Tree: Why don't you shut up,
you midget. Let the peacock boast.

Fern: You are just as he is - boastful.

Oak Tree: Why not? Here I am sixty feet
tall and looking over little you.

Fern: What is there to boast about,
you selfish tree? You take all the
breeze for yourself.

Oak Tree: I get the best view of the forest,
too. I see all that goes on around
me. All the pretty birds come to
rest on my branches.
Fern: I too get company, I get...

Oak Tree: You get the company of
Mr. Ugly across there, Mr. Toad.

Fern: I'll tell you something. It's a
secret. Tomorrow, the woodcutter
is coming to the forest.

Oak Tree: Tomorrow ... you mean ... I might
be no more tomorrow.

Fern: Yes, tomorrow, oh great mighty
oak, you will be cut down. And
I, your short friend, will watch
how the mighty shall fall.


The Injury
This morning, John is walking to school
slowly. Usually he walks quickly to schoo1.
Today, he walks with a limp. His leg hurts.

Yes, John has an injured leg. He hurt his
leg while he was playing football yesterday. As
he enters the school, many people come over to
him. His friends, Jack and Ken, are the first to
come over.

"How is the leg today?" they both ask.
"It still hurts a bit...but not as much as
before," answers John.

Soon, his class teacher and the Principal also come over. They all show concern. The Principal tales him into his office.

There, John is amazd at what he sees. It's the first time he has ever been to the Principal's office.

The room is lovely. There are lots of
pictures on the walls. There are also many
trophies, in the office. The furniture is also
new. John likes what he sees.

The Principal talks to John about the football
game yesterday. He was of course playing
for his school, when he was injured. The
Principal is happy that the injury is not very
serious.

The Principal likes John very much. John
takes part in almost every activity in the school.
He plays cricket and football. He sings and
even plays the steelpan. He also does quite well
in his lessons.

He does very well in all his subjects. But
he does best in science, reading, social studies
and music.

John leaves the Principal's office. He
goes past the music room. He then passes
the sick room, before going to his class.


Someone came knocking
At my wee, small door:
Someone came knocking
I'm sure sure sure;

I listened, I opened
I looked to left and right,
But nought there was a stirring
In the still dark night;
Only the busy beetle

Tap-tapping in the wall,
Only from the forest
The screech owl's call,
Only the cricket's whisstling
While the dewdrops fall

So I know not who came knocking,
At all, at all, at all


Jamal's Day
Jamal's days during the week are most
interesting. Jamal does quite a lot on a weekday.
He prays, eats and goes to school. He also
plays, does his homework, watches television
and rests at night.

Jamal gets up at five o'clock every
morning. He prays for twenty minutes. In all,
he prays for one hour each day. He does so
during the course of the day. Jamal prays five
times during the course of the day.

Jamal eats a lot. He spends about two
hours eating each day. He has a light breakfast
and lunch. He does not eat much then. At
dinner time, however, he has a heavy dinner.
He eats a lot.

Jamal plays quite a bit. He plays
before and after school. He plays for as much
as one and a half hours each day.

Most of Jamal's waking hours are spent in
school. He gets to school at eight o'clock each
day. He does well in his lessons. He also plays
cricket for his school.

He spends his lunch hour at school at school each day. He does not leave school until three o'clock. jamal spends a total of six hours at school each day.
Jamal uses his time at school very well. He si a very hard-working pupil. He studies a lot.

Wilen the evening comes, Jamal spends one and a half hours doing his homework. His
mother or father helps him with his homework, if he needs help. They check over his
homework, when he is finished.

After doing his homework, Jamal has his
dinner. Then he watches telcvision. He
watches two comedy shows and laughs a lot.
Jamal enjoys these two comedy shows very
much. One can see the happiness on his face, as
he watches the shows. He looks forward to
them each day.

He also looks forward to the news at seven
o'clock each night. He usually watches the
news with his family. He loves to watch the
news. He learns much.

After the news, it is time to rest. By
eight o'clock, Jamal is asleep. Jamal usually
sleeps until five o'clock the next morning. He
sleeps well.

Jamal truly has a busy day on weekdays.
As for the weekends, they are even busier.

To get a good idea of Jamal's day, one can
present a picture of a bar graph. A bar graph
is a chart that uses bars to show
information. The following is a bar graph
that shows Jamal's day:


Caring for Your Teeth
"Miss Dentist!. .. It wouldn't hurt, would
it?" asks Jeff.

"No, Jeff. .. you are only having a checkup,"
replies the dentist.

"Are you sure, sure, sure, that it
wouldn't hurt?"

"Yes, Jeff." promises the dentist.
Jeff is s itting in the dentist's chair. He is
having his regular dental check-up. He does not
like coming to the dentist, but his mother insists.

It is important to go to the dentist.
A dentist is a tooth doctor. He examines your
teeth carefully. Then he cleans and fills up any
cavities or holes. The dentist helps you to have
beautiful, healthy teeth.

Jeff knows he has to brush his teeth three
times a day. He does it at daybreak. He also
brushes his teeth after he eats at lunch time.
Finally, he brushes his teeth at nightfall.

Jeff puts toothpaste on his tooth-brush,
before he brushes his teeth. He then brushes his
teeth thoroughly. Next, he rinses his mouth
with water. His mouth feels clean.

Jeff is also very careful about his meals.
Mother always reminds him, "Stay away from
sweets. The sugar in sweets will make your
teeth decay. You will get cavities or holes in
your teeth."

Jeff listens to Mother. He does not cat too
many sweets. He drinks milk everyday and eats
lots of fruits and vegetables. Milk, fruits and
vegetables help to keep teeth strong and healthy.

Do you do what Jeff does? Do you go to
your dentist for a check-up? Do you brush your
teeth three times everyday? Do you drink milk
and eat lots of vegetables? If you do, you will
certainly have strong, healthy teeth.


Living Things and Non-living Things
Uncle Fred looks at the very big rock
before him.
"I wonder how this rock got so big?" he
says. Choy, on hearing this, laughs.

"Choy. what are you laughing at?" asks
Uncle Fred.
"1 am laughing at what you said, Uncle,"
says Choy.

"What was that?" asks Uncle Fred.

"You said that the rock got big. That is not
true. Rocks do not grow, Uncle. You see, a rock
is not a living thing."

Choy is correct. A rock is not a living
thing. Living things have needs. They need
food and water. They need to breathe. To
breathe is to take in and give out air. Living
things need to breathe to stay alive. They also
reproduce young ones. They do this to keep
their kind in the world. Living things often
need to move.

Plants and animals are therefore living
things. They have the needs of living things.
Animals such as birds, dogs, bats and
opossums are all living things. Plants such
as the fern, tomato, ochro and ro,e are abo
living things.

A rock does not have the needs of living
things. It does not need food or water. It does not breathe, move or reproduce. A rock, then,
is a non-living thing. Other non-living things
are pens, pencils and books.


Ayesha Rescues a Bird
Ayesha is walking across the savannah.
She walks with some of her classmates. She
sees a group of boys about five metres away. It
seems that they are throwing stones at
something small.

On getting closer, Ayesha sees a horrible
thing. The boys are trying to hit a little, brown
dove. It is tangled in kite thread. The poor bird
hops from one spot to another. It tries not to get
hit.

Ayesha is filled with horror. She loves
animals very much. She would never hurt one.
She would never kick a dog or hit a cat. She
would never throw stones at fowls. She also
15 cannot understand why people hurt animals.

Ayesha quickly goes into action. She runs
over to the boys and calls out to them.

"Leave it alone, leave it alone," she cries.
"Don't you see it's helpless?" With these words.
she quickly untangles the bird. The lillIe, brown
dove is soon freed. Ayesha is happy.

The boys look at her and feelings of guilt
overcome them as they see her kind action.

They feel even worse, when she takes the
bird to her chest and kisses it. She then lets the
bird fly. Carlos, one of the boys, feels very sad.
He looks at her and says:
"Ayesha, why did you do that?"

"Carlos," she says, "look at it this way. If
you were that bird, would you have liked
someone to throw stones at you?"

Carlos now looks at her shyly. In a very
low voice, he says, "No."

"What about the rest of you, would you
35 like people to throw stones at you, if you were
an animal?" Ayesha asks.

"No," answered the boys in one chorus.

Carlos and the other boys know that
Ayesha is right. They promise never to hurt
animals again.


Bo Nancy and the Yams
One day, an old man planted yams in his
garden. Bo Nancy was walking along the road
and saw a way to get a lot of tasty food free. He
decided to playa trick on the old man.

"Old man, oh!" called  Bo Nancy.
"Yes, Bo Nancy?" answered the old man.
"What are 'you doing here?" Bo Nancy
asked.
"I am planting yams." replied the old man.

Bo Nancy said, "I hope that you are
planting them the right way. If you don't plant
them the right way, they will not bear well."

"Well, I am doing the right thing," said
the old man. "I am cutting the yams in pieces
and putting one piece in a hole."

Bo Nancy laughed and said, "Old man,
don't tell me you are so foolish. You mean you
don't know how to plant yams to get the best
crop? Ha-ha-ha! I can't believe that."

Bo Nancy continued. "Man, I like you
very much. I want to see you reap many yams."

Thc old man said. "Tell me what to do. Bo
Nancy."

Bo Nancy said. "Well. You are my friend,
I will tell you the secret but you must not tell
anyone."

The old man said, "Yes, yes, man. I'll keep
the secret. Tell me."

Bo Nancy said. "Well, you must boil the
yams and some saltfish. Tie one piece of yam
and one piece of sailfish in a piece of green
banana leaf. Then you plant one parcel in a
hole."

The old man asked, "Will it grow?"

Bo Nancy said, "Yes, you will see. In a day
the yam will grow bigger than anything you
ever saw,"

"All right, I will do what you say," said the
old man.

Bo Nancy laughed to himself and went on
his way. The old man replaced all the yams in
his bag and took them home.

He went to the shop and bought some
sailfish. From his backyard garden, he cut
some banana leaves. He boiled all the yams
and sailfish. He wrapped each piece of yam
with some saltfish in the banana leaves. He
then returned to the garden. He took the
parcels and planted one in each hole.

That night, Bo Nancy came to the garden.
He quickly dug the holes. He opened each
parcel and ate every piece of yam and saltfi sh.
All he left behind were the pieces of banana
leaves. Afterthis tasty meal, he left, laughing at
the foolish man.

The next morning, the old man returned to
his garden. He expected to reap many large
yams. Instead, he looked in disbelief at what he
saw before him. All he saw were Bo Nancy's
tracks and the damage he had done. The old
man realised that he was tricked and vowed to
repay Bo Nancy as soon as he could.

A Look at Paragraphs
Sintra has been given an important
assignment. She looks forward to the task.
She has to read about paragraphs.

Sintra gets home and goes to her daddy's
study. Her daddy's study is a room he uses for
reading and writing. He keeps all the family
books there as well.

First she looks at the spine of the encyclopedia set.
The spine of the encyclopedia is the
part where the front cover meets the back
cover. There are twenty Volumes or books
in the set of encyclopedias.

Sintra takes down the volume with the
letter P on the spine. She knows she will find paragraphs in the P volume of the
encyclopedia. She is correct. She finds a page
on paragraphs in the P volume.

The writer gives three examples of
paragraphs in the encyclopedia. She learns
that a paragraph has a main idea with needed
details. These are called relevant details.
Sometimes, there are details that are not
needed. These details are called irrelevant
details.

On the next page are three paragraphs.
The relevant and irrelevant details are
identified in paragraph one. Read the other
two paragraphs to identify the relevant and
irrelevant details.

Paragraph One
Paul is happy. He eats a banana. He jumps
for joy. He hugs his friends. He even kisses his
teacher. Paul feels tired.

Paragraph Two
Theresa is scared. Her heart is beating
quickly. It is raining outside. Theresa trembles,
as she hears the sound of thunder. Her father
walks in.

Paragraph Three
Dr. Jones examines patients. He treats
them for different illnesses. Dr. J ones is a
medical doctor. He likes milkshake very much.
He likes to play hockey. Dr. Jones takes good
care of his patients.


The Peanut Boy
Lord, look upon this peanut boy,
He's rough and coarse and rude;
He has been selling all the day,
His words are very crude.

But Lord, he's worn and weary now,
See how he stands asleep;
His head is resting on the post,
The basket at his feet.

Dear Lord, he has not sold them all,
But he has done his best;
And, while he stands and sleeps,
With sweet dreams make him blest.

And Lord, when shall rail asleep,
With my tasks incomplete;
Remember I was weary, Lord,
And give me peaceful sleep.


The Lady and Her Three Sons
Once, there was a poor lady who lived
with her children. They lived in a small village.
Her husband was dead. She, therefore, had to
work on the sugar-cane estate to take care ofher
family.

This lady had three sons. The names she
gave to her sons were very funny. The youngest
boy was called Big Eye. The second was called
Thin Foot. The eldest was called Broad Mouth.

One morning, the lady sent Big Eye to the
shop. She sent him to buy one pack of biscuits
and a piece of saltfish. This she planned to use
for breakfast. Big Eye took the money given to
him by his mother and went to the shop.

He got the items from the shopkeeper but
said that the piece of saltfish was too small. The
other shoppers heard him and they all laughed.
They said he wanted more, because his name
was Big Eye. He was so angly, he said he
would not leave, until the shopkeeper gave
him a bigger piece of saltfish.

The mother waited for a long time. She
then sent Thin Foot to bring Big Eye home.
Thin Foot reached the shop and found out what
was happening. He too became angry and
started to quarrel. He stamped his foot on the
floor.

His foot went right through. There was a
crack in the floor at that spot, and his foot went
right through it. Thin Foot turned this way and
that but could not get it out. How it hurt!
Everyone laughed at him.

The lady was worried and angry by this
time. She next sent Broad Mouth to bring his
two brothers home. Broad Mouth reached the
shop. As soon as he saw what was
happening, he started to laugh. He laughed
so loudly, that his mouth split open.

Their mother rushed to the shop to find out
what was wrong. Her friends explained what
happened. They promised to help prepare
breakfast for her family that morning. They
also made her promise to give the boys proper
names. 'Crick-crack! monkey break his back
in a hamsack.'

Fact and Opinion
It is Thursday morning. It is also the first
period of the day. Miss Akal is about to have a
very interesting lesson with her class. They are
going to discuss Fact and Opinion.

"Today, children, as we planned, we will
be discussing Fact and .... "

"Opinion ... " adds Michelle.

"Good," says Miss Aka!. "Who can tell me
what a Fact is?" asks Miss Akal.

Martin stands and offers an answer. "Fact
is something known to be true."

"Good," says Miss Aka!. "Martin,could
you give me an example?"

"Yes. Miss, Trinidad is an island," says
Martin. Miss Akal tells the class he is correct.

"What is an Opinion?" she then asks.

"Miss, an Opinion is how you think about
something or someone," says Kay.

"Quite good, Kay. Give me an example of
an Opinion."

"My daddy is the best daddy in the world."

"Very good. that's a fine example of an
Opinion."

Miss Akal then gives the following sentences
to the children and asks them to state
whether each is Fact or Opinion. The
following are the responses she gets:

A fish lives in water Fact or Opinion? Opinion Incorrect, the answer is Fact. Oh! Oh

Rainy weather ius betterbtahn sunny weather. Fact or Opinion? Fact INcorrect Jenny Oh!

Tobago is smaller than Trinidad, Fact or Opinion? Fact Correct Javon Yay!


Writing a Friendly Letter

Friendly letters
are fun to write. It's
always nice to send
letters to family,
relatives and friends.
It's even nicer to get a
letter too.
There are a few
rules in writing a letter.


The Race
Bo Dog was always boasting that he was
the fastest runner of all the animals. One day,
they all were together. BO Lizard decided to ask
BO Dog to race with him.

The race was to the next village which was
one kilometre away. The animals all rushed to
wait at the winning-pole.

The race started. BO Dog sped off and 80
Lizard moved off also. They soon came to a .
bend in the track. BO Lizard jumped upon
Bo Dog's back. He did it so lightly that BO Dog
did not feel anything.

When he was halfway into the race, Bo
Dog looked around. Seeing no one behind, he
barked happily. To his surprise, Bo Dog saw Bo
Lizard at his side as soon as he turned his head.
Bo Lizard started to sing:
"Banga, Langa, I'm there with you!
Banga, Langa, I'm there with you!"

The surprised Bo Dog rushed on with
greater speed. But Bo Lizard was already on
his back.

Soon, they were coming towards the end
of the race. Bo Dog looked back again and,
seeing no one on the track, he barked happily.

But Bo Lizard had hopped off and started
his song
"Banga, Langa, I'm there with you!
Banga, Langa, I'm there with you!
Banga, Langa, I'm there with you!"

Bo Dog was angry and ran faster than the
wind . At no time, though, did he feel Bo Lizard
on his back.

Suodenly. the end of the race course was
in si;ht. Bo Dog was very happy. He turned
around again and saw no one. He quickly rushed on.

The large crowd at the winning-pole saw
only Bo Dog. The crowd started to shout in excitement.

At one metre from the winning-pole, Bo Lizard
jumped over Bo Dog's head. He landed
on the ground and quickly went past the line.
He then sang:
"Banga. Langa. I won the race!
Banga. Langa. I won the race!
Banga. Langa, look at Bo Dog's face!"

Ever since that day, Bo Dog can always be
seen chasing Bo Lizard around.

'Crick-crack the wire bends and this nancy story ends.'


One box. two box,
Three box, four,
Bounce the ball
And bounce some more.
Five box, six box,
Seven box, eight;
Bounce the ball
While others wait.
Careful lest
You touch the line,
Because the game
Will then be mine.


Bits is brown with bits of white
You would not like him to bite
Anson Gonzalez
For when he bites with all his might
You sure will run for your life
So if you know what's good for you
To Bits. just say. I love you


One box, two box,
Three box, four,
Bounce the ball
And bounce some more.
Five box, six box,
Seven box, eight;
Bounce the ball
While others wait.
Careful lest
You touch the line,
Because the game
Will then be mine.


Bits is brown with bits of white
You would not like him to bite
Anson Gonzalez
For when he bites with all his might
You sure will run for your life
So, if you know what's good for you
To Bits. just say, I love you


A Kitten
He's nothing much but fur,
And two round eyes of blue.
He has a giant purr
And a midget mew.

He darts and pats the air,
He starts and cocks his ear,
When there is nothing there
For him to see and hear.

He runs around in rings,
But why? we cannot tell;
With sideways leaps he springs
At things invisible

Then half-way through a leap
H is startled eyeballs close,
And he drops off to sleep
With one paw on his nose.


Grandfather Frog
Fat green frog sits by the pond.
Big frog, bull frog, grandfather frog,
Croak-croak-croak
Shuts his eyes, opens his eye,
Rolls his eye, winks his eye.
Waiting for
A lillIe fat fly.
Croak. croak.
I go walking down by the pond.
I want to see the big green frog,
I want to stare right into his eye_
Rolling. winking. funny old eye
But oh. he hears me coming by
Croak-croak
SPLASH.


Cat
The blad. cat yawns,
Opens her jaws,
Stretches her legs.
And shows her claws.

Then she gets up
And stands on four
Long stiff legs
And yawns some more.

She shows her sharp teeth
She arches her lip,
Her slice of a tongue
Turns up at the tip.

Lifting herself
On her delicate toes,
She stretches her back
As high as it goes.

She lets herself down
Witll particular care,
And pads away
With her tail in the air.


The Seaside
I love to go to the seaside,
And walk along the beach,
And gather lots of pretty shells
That are within my reach.

I paddle in the water,
And see the waves wash in,
I throw myself into the sea
To take a little swim.

The sun is shining very bright,
So sunburnt do we get;
We climb into our little boat,
We are not tired yet.


Taking Off
The airplane taxis down the field
And heads into the breeze,
It lifts its wheels above the ground,
It skims above the trees,
It rises high and higher
Away up towards the sun,
It's just a speck against the sky
- And now it's gone!


Recess
Ting a ling 'ling'
The school bell ring,
Recess! Recess!
Children screaming.
To Auntie Dawn,
The children run,
To buy salt nuts,
Toolum and plum.
Greedy Alvin,
Only begging.
None for you boy,
Says fat Marvin.
In a corner
Is John's brother
Concentrating
on his parata.
See Miss and Sir
By the table
Drinking Mauby
None for Mabel.
In the school yard
No one is sad
Children are playmg
They are so glad.
Then ting a 'ling'
The school bell ring
And recess ends,
It's work again.

Who Will Buy
The old man with his brighl balloons
is coming down the street.
The children skip to meet him
On eager, dancing feet.
Balloons of every colour.
Orange, hille. and red,
Are f1oating from his fingers
Like bUbbles uverhead.
Solo: "Who will buy a red balloon?"
The old man calls aloud:
Solo: "Who will buy a green balloo n?"
He asks the merry crowd.
Balloons of every colour.
Yellow, purple. blue,
Are pulling at their long white strings"
Solo: Come and buy one - do!"
The old man with his bright balloons
Has passed on up the street;
The children follow after him
On eager dancing feet.