ANNA’S TRIP TO THE CITY

°Anna wakes up early this morning. She is excited as Mother promised
to take her on a trip to the city. Anna has never gone to the city
before. She is eager to see what the city really looks like. She has
heard many stories about the city from her friends, Betsy and Rose.

"Mummy, let's hurry up before it gets late. I want to see everything in
the town today. I'll be telling my friends all about the city on
Monday," Anna says.
"I know how eager you are to see the city, Anna. We'll have the whole
day to move around. I hope you won't be too tired," says her mother.
Anna and her mother get into a taxi outside their house. In twenty-
five minutes they are in the city.

Anna's eyes widen as she notices the huge, tall buildings. They are on
both sides of the street. She has never seen such massive, tall buildings before. Her mother tells her that these massive, tall buildings are shops and stores. People come from the countryside to buy clothes, shoes, books, food, and other items at these stores.

While Anna stands looking around, she hears sounds made by the
heavy traffic. She hears the tooting of the horns of cars, buses, and
maxi taxis, as they drive up and down the street. Some are dropping
off passengers and others are taking up passengers. Some people have
to wait to cross the street.

Anna looks at the pavement. Here and there little groups of people
are chatting. People are moving in and out of the stores with their
shopping bags. Anna is surprised to see the vendors with little heaps
of goods on the pavement. These vendors sell needles, pins, clips,
knives, handkerchiefs, hangers and other small items. People are
stopping and buying items from the vendors.

Anna and her mother reach the end of the street. Anna smells the delicious cakes, pastries, pies and bread at the bakery shop. Anna is
delighted to see all the snacks in the glass cases. It is hot and Anna is
thirsty. Her mother buys two cold orange drinks and some goodies.
They sit down to eat and drink. They feel refreshed with the cold
drink.

Anna and her mother leave the bakery shop. They move into another
street. "Look Mummy, a policeman is chasing a vagrant on the street
over there!" exclaims Anna. The policeman is running behind the
vagrant. The vagrant has a bag in his hand. He has stolen some goods
from one of the stores. It is a long chase. Anna and her mother soon
lose sight of the vagrant and the policeman. Anna is tired. Her mother stops a taxi which takes them home.

When Anna goes to school on Monday, she will tell her friends all about her trip to the city.