Have you been to the Wild Fowl Trust at Pointe-a-Pierre? Let me
take you on a tour of this wild life centre. The purpose of the Wild
Fowl Trust is to preserve the many birds that are now becoming
scarce in the Caribbean.

Let us get into our bus and take a ride along the Solomon Hochoy
Highway. We stop at the entrance to the Oil Refinery at Pointe-a-Pierre. 
The guards at the gate tell us how we can get to the Wild
Fowl Trust. We drive along winding roads, and we admire beautiful
flowering plants along the road. We see the many signs, which
direct us to the Wild Fowl Trust.

When we arrive at the Trust, we are surprised at the beauty and calmness 
of the surroundings. A guide greets us and takes us inside an old
wooden building at the site. Here we see a small museum with many
pieces of Amerindian artifacts. We see shells, bones and many pieces
of pottery. We go to the upper floor at the Learning Centre to look at
a movie. Some of us buy postcards, books and pictures. Others buy
jerseys to take home, as souvenirs.

We pay a small fee and a guide takes us on a tour of the Trust. We see
unusual trees and flowering plants. Their names are written on them.
We see many fruit trees which provide food for the birds and other
animals at the Trust.

Here are the pretty red Scarlet Ibises in their large cages. See the
any pieces Cocrico. Do you know that the Scarlet Ibis and the Cocrico are the two
the two national birds of Trinidad and Tobago? See the beautiful blue and
gold Macaws, hear the Toucans and the Parakeets. Over there are the
Anhingas and the Cormorants.

Let us stop here and see the colourful Peacocks. See them spreading
on them. their tails of many colours as they strut about on the grassy lawn.

Here are the ponds. The ducks are having a wonderful time. They
look like the Muscovy Ducks and the Canada Goose. On the other
side is the Black Swan and the White Mute Swan. They are moving
gracefully in the ponds. Where is the Black Bellied Whistling Duck?
Look, it is coming towards us. The birds look very healthy. The
workers take care of the birds. They clean their cages and feed them
with fruits and other foods.

Let us visit the Caimans. They belong to the Alligator family. See
how they move slowly. Are they looking at us? Here are the snakes.
They are in their cages. Do not be afraid, they will not attack us.

When you visit the Wild Fowl Trust, you must obey the rules of the
Trust. Never interfere with the animals or plants. Do not pick the
fruits from the trees. Do not litter. Do not feed the animals.

If you would like to give a donation to the Wild Fowl Trust, you
may. This will help to support the animals and to upkeep the
Centre. I am sure you have enjoyed your tour. You may return
whenever you wish. Someone is always willing to welcome you.
