Miss Andrews is taking her Standard 1 class to the canefield. It is
croptime and in the fields the farmers are cutting the sugarcane. The
children are excited as they walk to the field. It is not far away from
their school.

Today the sun is very hot. The children wonder how the farmers can
work in the hot sun. Freeda says that she now knows why the cane
cutters wear their long sleeved shirts. The sun will burn their skin if
they don't.

"See the shining blades the cane cutters use to cut the canes," says
Miss Andrews. "They are sharp cutlasses, you know."
"Why do they burn the canefields?" asks Reena.
"The fire burns the trash and drives away snakes and other insects. It
is easy to cut the canes now," she replies.

The children look on as the cane is hacked from the roots. The cutters
lay the cane on the ground. The teacher tells the children, "Look at the
loaders. They are loading the cane on the trailers. It is very hard work.
The cane must be placed carefully and packed well. If the cane is not
packed properly it may fall and hurt people on the road."
The children listen to their teacher. They are eager to taste the sweet
juice of the cane.

"Here is cane for you!" shouts one of the cane cutters. The children
take the joints of cane. They peel them with their teeth. They chew the
cane to get the sweet juice. Everyone is enjoying the sugarcane. Miss
Andrews joins the children. She too, enjoys sucking the sweet juice of
the sugarcane.

Miss Andrews and the class sit under a shady tree and they chat about
the sugarcane. "Do you have any questions?" she asks.
Terry asks, "Where do the trailers take the cane?"
"To the scales to be weighed and sold," Miss Andrews answers.
"Who buys the cane?" asks Pedro.
"The owner of the factory buys the cane," the teacher replies.
"Is this the same cane they use for making sugar?" asks Pedro.
"Of course," says Phillip, "didn't you know that?"
He tells the children that his dad works at the factory. When the sugarcane comes to the factory, he takes care of it, until it is made into sugar.

The children ask Phillip many questions. He answers their questions
well. They learn that molasses, rum, and sugar are all made from the
juice of the sugarcane.

Miss Andrews listens while the children talk. She knows that they are
learning a lot about the sugarcane today. "We must return to our
class. We will visit the field some other time," she says.
They take small pieces of cane to share with their friends. The children
enjoy their trip to the canefield.