
Lesson 29

Too Many Choices

“Give it back!” shouted Ray.
	“No! You had it all morning. It’s my turn to choose. I
want to look at SpongeBob,” said Pam.
	“I hate SoongeBob!” sulked Ray. “It is boring. Why
can’t you watch Ben 70? It’s a much better show.”
	Pam held the television remote control and started to.
press the channel button. She changed channels until
SpongeBob Squarepants came on. That was her
favourite television programme.
	Her brother Ray was angry. He never liked to watch
the same programmes as his sister. The two children
were always fighting and arguing because of this.
	During the school holidays the fights increased. The
children spent more time looking at television and more
time fighting over what they should watch.
	Suddenly Ray jumped on his sister and grabbed the
remote from her hands. She screamed loudly and tried
to snatch it back from him. Hands and feet were hitting
and kicking.
	“What is going on here?” said Granny’s voice. “Ray,
why are you fighting your sister?”
	“She will not let me look at my show on TV,” said Ray
in a small voice.
	“He was watching his shows al! morning, Granny,”
said Pam. “I did not have a turn to watch my show ali
day.”
	“This is terrible, you two. I can’t believe you are
fighting over the television,” said Granny. “There is one
way to solve this problem. Turn off the television set,
and come to my room!”
	The children looked at each other. They turned off the
TV and followed Granny to her room. She sat on her bed
and pulled out a box from her drawer. The children
wondered what she was looking for. Then she took out a
picture.
	“Look at this picture,” she said. “What do you see?”
	“It looks like three children sitting and looking at
something,” said Ray.
	“You are right,” said Granny. “That is a picture of my
two brothers looking at television with me. Can you see
how happy we were in that picture?”
	“Yes,” said Pam. “You are all smiling.”
	“That is because it was the first time we had our own
TV,” said Granny. “When I was young like you, not
everybody had their own TV. We had to go toa
neighbour's house to watch. Then my parents got a TV
and my brothers and I were so excited. It was great to
have our very own TV.”
	“Did you fight over the remote too?” asked Ray.
	“Well,” smiled Granny “that’s the best part.”
	“What do you mean?” asked Pam.
	“We did not have anything to fight about,” said
Granny. “We only had one channel. In fact, we did not
even have a remote control. We had to use the buttons
on the television set.”
	“One channel!” shouted Ray, laughing. “How could
you only have one channel?”
	“Oh, life was very different when I was young, Ray.
We did not have the choices that you kids have today.
There were no computers, no cable TV, no cellphones.”
	“That was sad,” said Pam.
	“No, it wasn’t,” said Granny. “It was quite
interesting.” Although we did not have many of the
things you have today, we still had lots of fun.
Sometimes I think we even had more fun than you kids
have today. We played outdoor games, we read books,
we sang songs. We used to make a lot of our own toys.
It was great doing things for ourselves!”
	“Yes,” said Ray. “It does sound as if you had lots of
fun. We have many choices now but maybe we have too
many. I’m sorry, Pam. I was not being fair to you. You
can watch whatever you want for the rest of the day.”
	“I don’t want to watch any more TV today,” said Pam.
“I think I want to go outside and play instead.”
	“Great idea,” said Ray. “What should we play?”
	“I don’t know, let’s think — should we play cricket or
football or hide and seek?” said Pam.
	“Too many choices?” teased Granny.
	“Too many choices!” laughed the children.
