Lesson 1
Family Time

Hello! I am Rita. I am seven years old. I live with my
family in Arima. Arima is a town in Trinidad.
	There are eight people in my family. They are my
father, my mother, my two brothers, my grandfather, my
grandmother, my aunt — and me!
	I love having a big family. We have fun times together.
My grandparents take care of us when my parents are at
work. My parents are teachers and my aunt is a nurse.
	My brothers and I go to a primary school close to our
home. Every morning my grandfather walks to school
with us. We walk slowly. Our school is one block away
from our house.
	My grandmother always has a nice hot meal ready for
us in the evening. She likes to cook and we love to eat!
	We have a big dining table. Everyone sits around the
table for dinner. I set the table with plates and glasses.
At the dinner table we talk about our day. Everyone tells
stories about school and work. We eat, laugh and talk.
	After dinner Grandma and Mom clean the kitchen. My
brothers clear the table. They always help Mom after
dinner. Aunt Nelly helps me with my homework. Dad
reads with my brothers and Grandpa looks at television
before going to sleep.
	Every Saturday morning Dad goes to the market. He
takes me and my brothers with him. I love to go to the
market.
	There are many people there. It is very noisy. I love to
smell the fresh fruits and the hot food. Dad carries a big
basket. Soon the basket is full and we return home. I
help Mom to empty the basket on to the table. Grandma
and Mom pack everything away.
	In the afternoon we go to the savannah to play. My
brothers and I play football with Dad. We get plenty of
exercise when we play football. Dad says that exercise
will make us strong and healthy. Then we hear the bell
of the snow-cone man. That is the best part of the day
for me!
	Night comes and we sit and listen to Grandpa’s
stories. He likes to tell us about long ago. I love to hear
about when he was a boy. I listen and I fall asleep. With
Grandpa's voice in my ear I have happy dreams of my
family and me. I am so glad to have my big, happy
family.

