Lesson 16

My Computer and Grandma

My computer sits in my room next to my bed. It’s like a
friend to me. My computer helps me with my work. I can
make cards for my friends on my computer. I can sen
letters across the world from my computer too.
	A computer is a machine. It uses electricity to wore
Computers were made to make our lives easy. They am
fast and they do not make mistakes.
	There are so many things I can do on my computer.
can make up stories. I can do sums. I can draw pictures.
I can even paint the pictures on the computer. I can
listen to music and watch movies too. I play games wo
my brother on the computer. The best part is that whem
he does not want to play any more, the computer
continues to play with me.
	Some grown-ups still do not like computers. My
grandmother used to get annoyed when I was using my
computer. She said it made me lazy. She was always
complaining about how bad the computer was.
Grandma said that the computer spoils our eyes. She
also said that it causes us to stop thinking.
	My parents said that she did not understand
computers. That is why she did not like them. Last week
I asked Grandma to come to my room. I showed her
how to turn on the computer.
	She sat silently, looking a little annoyed. Then I started
to play my car-racing game on the computer. She just
sat looking at the screen. Slowly the frown was turning
into a smile. She was following the game. Then, I put
the mouse into her hand and showed her how to play
the game.
	At first she did not want to, but I kept holding her
hand and moving the mouse. Soon she was playing on
her own. She was enjoying the game so much that she
started laughing out loud!
	After that I showed her how she could email her
sisters who live abroad. She was very excited about that
too. She could not believe how easy it was to send mail
from Trinidad to Canada without leaving the house.
	By the end of the week Grandma was using my
computer every day. She played games, she drew
pictures and she was sending mail to everyone.
	Today I got an email from her. It said:
	“Hi Richard, thank you for introducing me to your
computer friend. I was wrong about it. It is not bad at all.
In fact, it is a lot of fun. I’m glad you showed me how to
use it. Now it can be my friend too.
	Love, Grandma”.
	I'm glad Grandma likes my computer. But now there's
just one problem. She wants to use it all of the time! So
now I have to ask my parents to get her one of her own.

