Lesson 20


Where Did that Chocolate Come From?

Do you like chocolate? Chocolate is a delicious snack.
Have you ever wondered where chocolate comes from?
	Did you know that your favourite chocolate bar comes
from a plant? It’s true — chocolate is made from the
seeds of the cocoa tree.
	Chocolate-making companies buy these seeds and
then they crush, mix, roll and mould them in machines
to make chocolate bars. Let’s have a look at how
chocolate is made.
	The cocoa tree flowers when it is about five years old.
Then the cocoa pods appear. The pods ripen throughout
the year. The cocoa pods are harvested twice per year.
	The farmers use tools to harvest the pods.
	They use a machete, which is a big knife, to cut the
pods off the trees. Then the pods are put into baskets.
The farmers use the machete to cut open the pods.
There are many seeds inside each pod.
	The seeds are covered with pulp. The seeds are
taken out of the pod and placed between banana leaves.
This process is called fermentation. Then the seeds are
dried in the sun.
	When the seeds are very dry, they are packed into
bags. The bags of seeds are then shipped to different
countries. When the cocoa seeds arrive in these
countries, they are sent to factories.
	In the factory they are roasted in huge ovens.
	The roasting causes the shells to crack easily. Then
the seeds are put into a machine called a winnower,
which removes the shells. The bits of seed that are left
are called nibs.
	The nibs are then placed in a mill. The mill grinds
the nibs into a thick paste. Then the manufacturer adds
milk, sugar and butter to the paste to make a thick
chocolate crumb.
	The crumb is then put through another machine to
make it silky and smooth.
	Finally, the chocolate is moulded and shaped into
bars. Wrappers are placed around the chocolate bars
and they are packed and sent to your stores and
groceries.
Then, you go to the grocery and buy your chocolate
bar. That is the last stage of the journey, before you
gobble up all of that yummy chocolate!
