Lesson 23

Pick It Up, Please!

Susan was feeling sad. She was sitting under a big
shady tree behind the school. It was a nice cool place to
sit on a sunny day. So why was Susan so sad? All
around the tree there were pieces of rubbish. Paper
bags, juice bottles, candy wrappers and all kinds of
rubbish were strewn on the ground.
	Susan could not understand why people littered like
that. There were many rubbish bins around the school.
Yet the children ate, played and just dropped the rubbish
anywhere as usual.
	Susan got up and decided to take a walk to the other
side of the school. But what did she see there? More
paper and empty juice bottles stuck in the wire fence
and on the ground.
	This was not good. Susan felt truly sick seeing her
school so dirty. She wished she could do something to
stop it. But she was only seven years old. What could a
little seven-year-old do to change a whole school?
	The bell rang and the children went back to their
classrooms. It was time for art. Susan liked doing art so
she felt a little better. The teacher told the class to draw
a picture of a place they would like to visit. Susan
thought of all the places she read about in
books. She was thinking of which one she should draw
when she got a fantastic idea.
	She quickly took out her ruler and colouring pencils
and started her drawing. She had a clear picture in her
head, so she worked quickly. Soon she was smiling at
her great work. After some time, the teacher asked the
children to stop. Then she asked them to show their
drawings to the class and explain why they chose the
places in the pictures. 
	Soon it was Susan’s turn to show her picture. She
walked to the front of the class and proudly showed off
her drawing.
	“Isn't that our schoolyard?” asked one of the children.
	“Yes itis,” said Susan.
	“Is that your favourite place?” asked another student.
	“Well, it used to be,” said Susan. “But if you look at
this picture you will see it is very different from our
schoolyard.”
	“How is that, Susan?” asked her teacher.
	“In my picture there is no rubbish. Have you seen
what it looks like around our school? There is rubbish
everywhere! How can people just litter our schoolyard
like that?” said Susan almost in tears.
	The students bent their heads. They knew that what
Susan said was true. The schoolyard was very dirty.
Susan’s teacher saw how upset she was.
	“You are right, Susan. It is a terrible thing to litter. But
everyone has to do his or her part to stop it.”
	“But what can I do?” sobbed Susan.
	“Well, I think you have already started,” said her
teacher. “Your drawing can be used to start a clean-up
campaign around the school.”
	“What's a campaign, miss?” asked a student.
	“It is something that people do when they want to get
a message to lots of other people. They make posters,
give out information and do interesting things so that
everyone will get their message.”
	Susan’s eyes lit up.
	“Can we start a clean-up campaign for our school?”
she asked.
	“Of course we can,” said the teacher. “In fact, we can
make it our class project for this term. We can work on it
all of April and May. What do you all think, children?”
	“YES, MISS!” shouted the class.
	“Great,” said the teacher. “We'll start planning
from tomorrow. Everyone needs to think about it for
homework. Think of the best ways to ask people to stop
littering.”
	On Tuesday morning the children were all excited.
They all had brilliant ideas about what they could do.
Susan listened to her friends’ ideas. The teacher wrote
them on the whiteboard.
	First, they were going to take photos of the rubbish
that was lying around the school. Then, they were going
to have a clean-up crew who would walk around and
pick up all of the rubbish.
	The teacher asked the principal to let them do a
presentation during the school’s assembly on Friday.
At the assembly, they showed the photos of the rubbish
and then of the clean areas after the rubbish was picked
up. Finally, they showed the school Susan’s drawing of
what the school yard should look like. By the end of the
presentation, the whole school was standing and
clapping.
	Everyone realized how wrong it was to litter and
everyone was promising never to do it again. Susan was
happy but she was not taking any chances. She was
walking around giving everyone a badge that said “Pick
it up, please!”