Liam and Adam are at Mr. Chin's pet shop. Liam is buying some pet
food for his pet rabbits.
"Do you have a pet at home?" Liam asks Adam.
"Of course, I do. I have come to buy food for my pets," Adam replies.
"Tell me about your pet, Liam, and I will tell you about mine," says
Adam.

Liam loves his pet rabbits. He is happy to tell Adam about them.
"I keep a pair of pet rabbits," says Liam. "They are not toy rabbits you
know,” Liam laughs. “They are alive. I keep my rabbits in a hutch at
home."
"What can your rabbits do? Do they breathe, walk, talk? Can they see
and hear?" asks Adam.
"Of course they do. My rabbits breathe with their pink noses, and they look at me when I call their names. I feed them with leaves of lettuce
and cabbage. They eat bits of carrots and bread, too. You must see
them hop about in their hutch. They purr and squeak when they see
me. I pat them on their soft, furry backs to tell them I love them."
"How big are your rabbits?" inquires Adam.
"When Daddy bought my pair of rabbits for me, they were as small as
kittens. Now, they are as large as cats. My dad says that rabbits grow .
very fast," replies Liam.

"Do your pets have names? May I come to play with them?" asks Adam.
“Pink Puggy is my female rabbit and White Piko is my male rabbit.
You may come to see them but you must not scare Puggy. She will
have baby rabbits soon," says Liam.
"Baby rabbits!" exclaims Adam. "Can I have a rabbit when they are .
born?"
Liam does not answer but asks Adam to tell him about his pet.
Adam smiles. "My pets are turtles," he says.
"Turtles!" shouts Liam, "turtles!"
"Yes, small turtles Liam, not large sea turtles," Adam adds.
"I keep them in an aquarium. They move, they breathe, they eat and
they grow. They are like other living things. When my turtles give off
their waste, I clean my aquarium"
Will they have baby turtles, too?" asks Liam.
"Yes. Turtles lay eggs that hatch into baby turtles. Baby turtles look
like their parents.

The boys learn about each other's pets. They learn that living things
move, breathe, eat and grow. They give off waste from their bodies.
They also produce young ones.

Do you know that some baby animals do not look like their parents?
You will learn about this in your science class.