Soon it will be Mother's Day. Seeta and her friends pass the village
shop every evening. They look at the glass cases. There are lovely
packets and tins of candies, chocolates and other sweets. They are
wrapped in red, green and white paper. They want to give their mothers 
chocolates for Mother's Day.

Seeta has no money. She plans to save twenty-five cents each day
from her pocket money. She will save the money her mother gives
her for helping with the chores at home. After two weeks, Seeta is very
happy. "I have enough money to buy my mom the large tin of chocolates. 
My mom loves chocolates," she says to her friend.

One bright morning, Seeta walks happily down to the village shop.
She carries her money in a small purse. She is going to buy the gift of
chocolates for her dearest mummy. As Seeta reaches the store, she
sees an old woman sitting on the pavement. She has a dirty tin in her
hand. Her clothes are old and tattered. She has no shoes on her feet.
Her hair is all over her face. The old woman is crying. She stretches
out her tin to Seeta and says, "Child, please help me. I have nothing to
eat. For three days | lived on water and biscuits. I have nothing left 
now."

Seeta looks at the old beggar woman and then looks at the purse in
her hand. She has just enough money to buy her mom a Mother's Day
gift. Seeta is puzzled. "What shall I do?" she asks herself. She gazes
again at the beggar. She sees the hunger in the beggar’s eyes. She sees
the dried lips and the sunken cheeks. Seeta is touched by the old beggar's
hunger.

Someone has to assist the poor, old beggar. "If I give her my money
she will buy some food to eat. Someone else may help her
afterwards," Seeta says to herself. Seeta smiles at the old beggar
woman. She stoops down and puts her money into the beggar's tin.
Seeta feels very happy. The poor old woman will have something to
eat now.

Then, Seeta moves away thinking of Mother's Day. She is sad. She
cannot buy her mom the chocolates. She is also happy. How could she
leave the poor old beggar to starve to death? Seeta knows that her
mom will understand. “I'll make my mom a beautiful card. She
will love the beautiful flowers I will draw for her.”
