Sly Mongoose lives in his hole near Ma Poyo's house. Ma Poyo has
two young children, Breddie and Leena. Ma Poyo has chickens and
ducks. She sells the chickens and ducks at the market on Fridays. She
takes care of her children with the money she gets.

All day Ma Poyo looks after her chickens and ducks. When she
awakes she goes to the coop, cleans it and puts fresh water for the
chicks. Breddie and Leena feed the chicks and the ducks with grains
of corn. Every day Ma Poyo picks up the eggs and puts them away
safely. When the eggs hatch, she will have more chickens and ducks
to sell at the market.

Ma Poyo has one problem. It is a big problem. Every night, Sly
Mongoose visits Ma Poyo's coop to steal her young chicks. "Cluck,

"cluck, cluck," they cackle when they see Sly Mongoose. Ma Poyo
runs to the coop with a big stick to chase away Sly Mongoose. Ma
Poyo has lost about two dozen of her best chicks. She is very
worried and unhappy.

Ma Poyo thinks of a plan to catch Sly Mongoose. She asks her broth-
er, Yakito, to lend her his big, brown dog, Lalayo. Her brother thinks
it is a good idea for Lalayo to scare away Sly Mongoose.

Bright and early next morning, Yakito comes to his sister's house
with his big, brown dog, Lalayo.
"You reach early, brother!" Ma Poyo calls.
"Yes, this problem with Sly Mongoose must stop once and for all,"
he replies.
They take the dog to the coop where the chicks are kept.

Soon, Sly Mongoose comes near the coop. He hears a growl and
then a howl. He knows that a dog is waiting to get him. Sly
Mongoose is hungry, very hungry. He does not care. He grabs a
chick but Lalayo is not fast enough for him. The dog chases Sly
Mongoose among the bushes, straight to his hole.

Sly Mongoose decides to make a plan. He knows that dogs have a
keen sense of smell. He knows if he returns, the dog will know him
and bark even louder. Perhaps, it might even tear him to pieces. Sly
Mongoose decides to change the colour of his skin. He decides to
change his smell. He finds a tin of green paint. He adds some
kerosene to the paint and paints himself. "Tonight no one will
know it's me," Sly Mongoose says to himself.

The same evening, Ma Poyo is burning all the dried leaves in a little
fire near the chicken coop. There are bits of wood burning slowly
among the grasses. It is dark and Sly Mongoose crawls slowly and
quietly to Ma Poyo's coop. He does not see the burning bush. His
feet and belly are burnt in the heat. Remember, he has covered his
body with paint and kerosene. Sly Mongoose screams at the top of
his voice, Lalayo barks so loudly that Ma Poyo awakes with the
noise. There is Sly Mongoose. His skin is all burnt with the heat.
"Help! Help!" he cries. It is too late. His limbs are badly burnt.

Ma Poyo and Lalayo stare as Sly Mongoose drags himself through
the bushes back to his hole. Sly Mongoose does not come back to Ma
Poyo's chicken coop. Perhaps he has learned a lesson.

“You cannot go on stealing all the time. One day you will be
caught.”