Many, many years ago, Zanu, an Arawak boy, lived in our island. He
was small and plump looking with brown skin. His forehead was flat
and his hair was black and long.

Zanu lived among other Arawak families. The Arawak families
helped one another to build their houses. The houses had a round
shape. They were made of wooden posts and poles. They were also
made with branches and leaves of trees. The houses were covered
with a thatched roof.The houses of the Arawaks were cool and comfortable. 
Rain could not enter and winds could not blow down the
houses. An Arawak house was called a Caneye.

There was no furniture in an Arawak house. There were clay pots,
stools, hammocks and a "Zemi". A "Zemi'" is the Arawak god and was
made from clay, wood or stone. Arawaks worshipped their "Zemi".
Young Arawak children were taught to do many things by their parents. 
Young boys went with their fathers on fishing trips. They
learned to fish for their living. Their fathers taught them how to hunt
for wild animals in the forest. Zanu learned to clean the meat and
smoke the meat on an open fire. He learned to make tools and
weapons from stone, clay, wood and bones. He also made pots, stools,
spears and clubs.

Arawak girls stayed at home with their mothers. Zanu's sisters
learned to spin and weave cotton cloth, They made hammocks out of
cotton strings. They also learned to cook and care for the babies in the
family. The Arawak women planted the crops. They planted manioc,
pepper, peanut, beans and potatoes. They made their favourite soup
called "pepperpot" with the crops they planted. They also added turtle 
meat, iguana and yellow snake meat to their soup. They kept the
soup on a low fire for many days. As they ate the soup, they kept
adding more vegetables and meat to it.

The Arawaks also ate corn bread and cassava cakes with their meal.
They ate fruits like pineapple, guava, mammee apple and star apple.

On feast days the Arawak men, women and children painted their
bodies in bright colours. Women and girls wore ornaments on their
ears, nose and lips. At the feast there was music and dancing.

The Arawaks lived in communities. Sometimes they fought their ene-
mies. They were very afraid of another tribe of people called the
Caribs. In Reader Two, we will learn about the Caribs who also lived
in the Caribbean, many, many years ago.