"Do you know that the hummingbird is the smallest bird in the
world?" asks the teacher.
The children open their eyes wide. Today, the class will learn about
the hummingbird. The teacher shows the pupils a picture of a hummingbird.
“Is the hummingbird playing among the flowers? Is it sipping 
the nectar from the flowers?” the teacher asks.

The teacher reads a story of the hummingbird to her class.
"The hummingbird is a tiny bird. It is very light. It is so light that it
can sit upon a flower. The nest of the hummingbird looks like a small
cup. The bird lays two tiny eggs. The eggs are as small as bees or
grains of peas. Four baby birds can be held in a teaspoon. The feathers 
of the hummingbird are bright and beautiful. The wings can move
so fast that the bird looks as if it is standing still in the air. When the
hummingbird reaches the blossom, then it uses its long bill to get the
nectar deep in the flower."

The children listen as the teacher continues to read. "The
hummingbird can fly straight up or straight down. It can fly
backwards too. It can fly to the front or to the sides. When the bird
flies swiftly its wings make a humming sound. That is how the
humming bird got its name." The children smile.
"Do hummingbirds take care of their young ones as other birds do?"
asks Jeremy.
"Yes," replies the teacher, "hummingbirds make good parents. First
they build their nest, then lay their eggs. The parent birds bring nectar
for their young ones. They put their long bills down the necks of
the babies to feed them with the nectar."

"How long do baby hummingbirds remain in their nests?" Reena
asks.
"Baby hummingbirds stay in their nests for about three weeks. When
they are big and strong enough they leave the nest. They now build
their own nests. They look for their own nectar to feed their own families
of hummingbirds," the teacher replies.

The teacher informs her class that the hummingbird is a special bird.
She says that this bird is known by everyone in the Caribbean Islands.
The children smile. They have enjoyed the lesson.