"We wish you a Merry Christmas
We wish you a Merry Christmas
We wish you a Merry Christmas
And a Happy New Year."


The children sing this song as they stand at the front gate of our
house.
"Come in, come in," says Dana, my sister. She welcomes the children
to our home. They are singing Christmas carols to the people of the
village.

The children are dressed in their red and white gowns. They are very
happy to sing for our family.
"What would you like us to sing for you?" asks the leader of the
group.
"Sing, 'Away in a Manger' and 'Once in Royal David City’,
"I always like to hear these lovely carols," Daddy replies.

The children sing very sweetly as they hold their lighted candles in
their hands. My sisters and I sing along with them.

The children look tired. Mom invites them into the house. They are all
excited. They are admiring the Christmas decorations. Mom is hanging 
her new curtains. Daddy and Paul are putting up the Christmas
tree.

"Don't you forget the star, Paul!" reminds Mommy.
"Let me fix it at the top of the tree," begs one of the children. He is the tallest of them all.
"Why do people fix a star on a Christmas tree?" asks Indra.
Daddy tells the children of the Star of Bethlehem. On the night that
the Baby Jesus was born, G odplaced a star in the sky. The star
showed the shepherds and wise men the way to the stable where the
Baby Jesus was born.

"What a delicious smell! Is it your mom's Christmas cake?" asks Tricia.
"Yes, Mom has put the cakes to bake in the new oven."
The children chat with one another. They look at the polished chairs.
They say that the house is looking pretty. There are many pieces of
decoration. Dad brings out a large Santa Claus and places it in the living room. The children laugh and clap. "Santa, Santa Claus!" they
shout. Everyone wishes to get a touch of the Santa Claus.

"Refreshments for the carollers!" Daddy exclaims.
Mom gives each child a slice of cake, a glass of sorrel drink, some
cookies and sweets. The children are all very happy.

As the children leave, they sing "Merry Christmas to you and a Happy
New Year." The children's carols bring to our home the true feeling of
Christmas.