Today the weather is very hot. The children of the Standard 1 class,
feel the heat in their classroom. Miss Khan, the class teacher, talks to
her pupils about the weather.

She tells them there was sunshine every day during the past
four months. The earth is dry and parched. There are large cracks
on the ground everywhere. The leaves of many trees are withering.
Some plants have turned from green to brown. Some trees have even
lost all their leaves. They stand like dry wood.

The children say that they have very little water at home. Miss Khan
agrees with them. She says that all the ponds have dried up. The
reservoirs have little water so people should all use water carefully.

"What do you think we need most, now?" the teacher asks the class.
"Rain! Rain!" the children exclaim.
"Yes, we need the rain. Rain will bring back life to the dry earth."
"Let us recite the rhyme on the rain," she tells the children. The chil-
dren remember their lines. They are happy to recite the rhyme for
their teacher.
"Rain, rain, lovely rain
Fall upon the hills and plain
Lift the flowers' drooping heads
Fill the ponds and river beds."

"Do you think the rain will fall today, Miss?" asks Timmy.
Miss Khan, the class teacher, looks up at the sky. She replies, "There
are very dark clouds in the sky. It is a sign that rain will soon fall."
"Hear the cry of the rainbirds!" exclaims Molly. "Dad says the rain-
bird's cry tells us that the rain is near." As the children talk about the
rain, they hear the pitter patter of raindrops on the roof of their class-
room.
"It's raining, raining, raining!" the children shout as they clap happily.
"What a blessing is the rain!" exclaims the teacher.

Miss Khan tells the children that the earth will be green again. The
birds and other animals will drink water from the ponds and rivers.
The dams and reservoirs will be filled once more. "We will
have enough water to use in our homes," she says.
"My dad will be very happy today," says Brian. "He has many crops
to plant in the garden."
Miss Khan agrees with Brian. "All farmers love the rain. Rain helps to
make the soil moist so they can sow their seeds."

The children are eager to get home. They plan to play in the rain when
they reach home. They like to feel the fresh cool raindrops upon their
faces. Miss Khan is teady to dismiss the class. The children want to
say another stanza of their thyme. Happily they recite,
"Rain, rain fall we pray
Beat upon the earth today.
Lift the flowers' drooping heads
Fill the ponds and river beds."