Once there was a tall cherry tree at the back of the village school.
The tree was huge and the branches hung low. Hundreds of sweet
cherries hung from the branches. What a beautiful sight it was, with
its ripe red cherries!

Children loved to pick the cherries when they passed beneath the
tree. Everyday the children of the school would pick the ripened
cherries and feast on them. They were happy that the tree was near
to their school.

Birds perched on the branches and pecked on the cherries. They too
were happy to have the fruits as their food. Ants and other insects
crawled over the branches to get a taste of the ripe cherries.

One day, the cherry tree became angry. It was angry at the noise the
children made. When the children came to pick the cherries, the tree
wished that it could disappear. The tree did not want anyone to
share its fruits. The tree became proud and selfish.

One day, the tree said to the birds and the ants, “I wish you would
leave me alone. You should make your home somewhere else. I am
tired of everyone.”
The birds and the insects replied, “We are here because of your
sweet fruits. They are the sweetest fruits in the world.”
“Then I wish that my fruits were sour and poisonous. I wish I had
no fruits at all,” said the angry tree.

The next night there was a hurricane. The winds roared and blew
against the tree. The branches shook and all the fruits fell to the
ground. The wind lashed against the branches and they went
spinning in the air. Broken twigs fell here, there and everywhere.

Next morning, the tree stood bare. It was stripped of all its fruits, its
branches and its leaves. Only the trunk stood tall.

The lonely tree sighed and sighed. “I feel so sad and alone. Where
have all the children gone? Where are the birds that whistled and
chirped among my branches? Where are the ants that crawled
among my leaves? Where are my sweet cherries?”
The lonely tree wept. It wished that all its friends would come back.

The rains came and the branches and leaves sprouted again.
Flowers appeared and then the fruits hung on the branches. How
happy the tree felt as it welcomed the children, the birds and the
insects.