Lesson 10

The First Meeting

A long, long time ago, the Caribs and Arawaks lived in
Guyana. The strong, young men used to look across the
ocean and see the shapes of mountains on the other
side. They longed to go there and see what they might
find. They used the wood from the giant trees in the
forest to make canoes and oars. The canoes were so big
that about sixty men had to row each one for it to move
through the seas.
	With these canoes, the Caribs and Arawaks crossed
over to the islands. They went to Trinidad and Tobago.
Tobago is the Arawak word for tobacco. They also went
to Barbados, Grenada, Jamaica, Cuba, Haiti and the
Bahamas.
	The Caribs and Arawaks made their homes in these
islands. They lived in villages near to the sea. They
fished and hunted for food. They planted maize, cassava
and sweet potatoes.
	They were very clever people. They made weapons
from bone and shell. Their weapons were spears and
arrows. They put sharp splinters of bone at the tip of the
arrows.
	For many years the Caribs and Arawaks lived a very
simple and happy life. They told stories to their children
about Guyana and tales of the Ancient One and the sun
spirit Arawidi. They also told stories about the
Coomacka tree, which grew so tall that people believec
it touched the sky.
	Then one day something strange happened —
something that changed the lives of these people
forever. The Arawaks who were living in an island called
Guanahani in the Bahamas saw a strange sight. Close to
the shore there were three canoes. But not just canoes —
very big canoes of a kind that they had never seen
before.
	These canoes were not moving with oars. They
seemed to have wings. The curious Arawaks moved
closer to take a good look at these strange canoes. As
they got closer, they saw men coming out of the canoes:
men with white and pink faces. The men were wearing
strange black clothes with pieces of metal on them.
	The Arawaks stood in amazement as the strange men
threw themselves on their knees and kissed the sandy
ground. They were all gathering around their leader. The
Arawaks began to spread out as the strangers got closer.
	The two groups of people faced each other on the
sandy shores of Guanahani. The humble Arawaks with
their spears and strings of arrows looked at the men
from Europe, who were armed with weapons made of
iron.
	This was the first meeting between the native people
of these lands and Christopher Columbus. Columbus
was the Italian explorer who would later make three
more voyages to these islands. He was the first
European to visit the islands that we now call the West
Indies.
