Lesson 33

Nanny’s Birthday

Every year, on the 6th day of January, Jamaicans
celebrate Nanny’s Birthday. Nanny of the Maroons lived
about 250 years ago. At this time Spain ruled Jamaica.
The Spaniards had brought slaves from Africa.
	The slaves were treated very badly. Many of them
were beaten by their masters and spoken to in a very
coarse manner. Soon, the English took over from the
Spaniards. Many of the slaves ran away and hid in the
mountains. These runaway slaves were called the
Maroons.
	Grandy Nanny was a Maroon leader. She was not a
slave herself but she led the Maroons into the hills of
Portland. They lived in the hills in board houses. This
place was called Nanny Town. Nanny was a very
powerful lady. She was a religious leader and people
respected her. Even the English soldiers were afraid of
her. Some people thought she could do magic.
	Nanny became known as the ‘Queen Mother’. She
was like a mother to all of her people. She always took
special care of the women and children. The women
planted food, while the men fought the English soldiers.
	Nanny always told the men when to fight. She even
told them how to fight. She led her people with great
courage. She used to call her people together with an
abeng. An abeng is a cow's horn. These are still popular
today in Jamaica.
	Nanny’s brother was named Cudjoe. He was also a
very brave man. Cudjoe and Nanny kept the Maroons
safe for a long time. They hid and lived in the hills of the
Blue Mountains of Jamaica. Then, one day, the English
soldiers found Nanny Town. Nanny and her people ran
away and went higher up the mountains.
	After a long time, the English began making
agreements with the slaves. The English signed treaties
that gave the slaves their freedom. The treaties allowed
both sides to live in peace, but Nanny did not want to
sign any treaty. She did not trust the English soldiers.
	In the end, one of her chiefs signed the peace treaty.
The English gave Nanny Town back to Nanny and her
people. Today this place is called Moore Town. This is a
special place in Jamaica. Nanny got this place for her
people.
	So the next time you hear the sound of the abeng,
remember Nanny and celebrate her victory. That special
Nanny who helped the people of her country!
