Lesson 36 

A Big Man with a Big Heart

When Usain Bolt was a little boy he lived with his
parents They lived in a small town called Trelawny, in
Jamaica. The family owned a grocery store.
	Usain always loved sports.’He enjoyed playing with
his brother Sadeeki and his sister Sherine. Usain also
spent long hours playing cricket and football in the
street.
	At school Usain became famous for his speed. He was
the school’s fastest runner when he was 12 years old.
That was the beginning of greatness for this super-fast
athlete.
	When Usain entered high school he joined the cricket
team. He wanted to be a fast bowler. However, his coach
saw how quickly he ran on the pitch and encouraged
him to train for track and field events. Usain listened to
his coach and began training for athletics.
	He won many championship medals. He represented
Jamaica in many athletic events and won many medals.
But it was at the 2008 Olympics in Beijing that Bolt
became famous around the world.
	He was the first man to win three sprinting events and
set world records in all three events. These events were
the 100m, 200m and 4 x 100m relay. People gave him I
the name ‘Lightning’ Bolt, because he seemed to run as
fast as lightning.
	Usain Bolt made a great name for himself. It takes a
lot of effort and discipline to achieve this kind of success
in sports.
	Usain has to spend many hours training and
practising. He is over six feet tall. Most people have to
look up when they are next to him. Usain spends his
free time dancing and relaxing with family and friends.
He still loves cricket. Some of his favourite cricketers are
Waquar Younis, Sachin Tendulkar and Matthew Hayden.
He also supports Manchester United in football.
	Usain said that he works hard to win races for his
parents. He knows that his parents took good care of
him when he was a child. Now that he is an adult he
wants to be successful to make his parents happy.
	He is also a good role model for children. Usain
donates a lot of his money to organizations that help
children and people in need. Usain ‘Lightning’ Bolt is a
great athlete with a big heart.
