Lesson 17

Steel Band Land

Joe was very excited. He ran into the house to find his
mother. He dropped his school bag on the table. His
mother heard his footsteps.
	“Joe is that you?” she called out.
	“Yes Mom, I’m here in the kitchen,” answered Joe.
His mother appeared at the back door.
	“Hello son, how was school today?” asked Joe’s
mother.
	“School was great,” said Joe with a big smile. “We
are going to start to play the steel pan from tomorrow.”
	“Wow, that is wonderful,” said Joe’s mother. “I know
you will love playing in a steel band.”
	“Yes, I can’t wait to learn. You know how I love to go
and listen when the bands play in the pan yard down the
road. Soon I might be able to join their band.”
	“Well,” laughed his mother. “You might need to learn
for a while before joining those bands. They are
professionals.”
	“What does that mean?” asked Joe.
	“Aprofessional is someone who learned how to do
something for a long time and is very good at it. Those
people who play in the pan yard have been learning to
play for a long time. They spend long hours practising
and that is why they play so well.”
	“Oh, I see. Well I can’t wait to start my lessons. Do
you know the story of the steel band, Mom?”
	“I know it started with the Tamboo Bamboo,” said
Joe’s mother.
	“Yes, our teacher told us the whole story today. Can I
tell you about it?”
	“Of course you can. I would love to hear the whole
story.”
	Joe sat down on a chair and began his story.
“Our teacher said that the Africans always played
drums. When they came to Trinidad a long time ago
they brought that drum culture with them.
“ At one time the authorities tried to ban the drums.
But then the people started to use bamboo as drums.
They discovered that the bamboo stems made booming
sounds when they were struck by a stick.
	“This is how the Tamboo Bamboo began. The music
was very popular. The Tamboo Bamboo bands were
very popular during Carnival celebrations.
	“Then one day a man called Winston ‘Spree’ Simon
found out something very interesting. Winston lived in
John John. Do you know where John John is Mom?"
asked Joe.
	“Child, my parents grew up in John John,” said Joe's
mother. “It was a very poor part of Trinidad. I remember
50 the story of Winston Simon too. But you go on and tell
me what you found out.”
	“Well, you know how Winston Simon was also a
drummer,” continued Joe. “He had a kettledrum that he
lent to a friend. When the friend gave it back to him the
drum was beaten very badly. It had lost its shape and
also its sound.
	“Simon started to pound inside the drum. He was
trying to fix it back the way it was. While he was
pounding, he heard different sounds coming from
different parts of the drum. He was very surprised and
very curious.
	“He started to hit the drum with pieces of wood. The
sounds were even more interesting. Simon was very
excited and he told his friends about it. They all started
playing around with the drums and trying out different
sounds. Soon all of the men got big cans and started
pounding them into special shapes.
	“This was how the steel pan was born. Winston
‘Spree’ Simon and the John John Band formed the first
steel band. Isn't that a great thing Mom?”
	“It is wonderful,” said Mom. “Some people say that
the steel pan gives us the sweetest music. People all
around the world love steel-pan music, Joe.”
	“Yes, and it was invented right here in Trinidad,” said
Joe proudly. “I’m going to learn the steel-pan music
from my country and I’m going to play, play, play pan!”
