Lesson 35

In the Days of Grandpa George

Susan was ready for bed. She heard her grandfather's
voice. He was coming to tell her a story. Every night
Grandpa George told Susan stories about long ago.
Susan loved to listen to Grandpa's stories. She enjoyed
hearing about his life as a boy.
	The door opened slowly and Grandpa George
entered. “Waiting for your story?” he asked smiling.
	“Of course, you know I can’t sleep without my story,”
said Susan with a grin.
	“Well, let’s begin then. Tonight I will tell you a story
about when I worked in the sugar cane fields.”
	“Oh goodie, that sounds like fun. I love sugar cane,”
said Susan.
	“Well, it was not so much fun for me,” said Grandpa.
“Every morning I had to wake up at four o’clock. It was
very cold at that time. We did not have any warm water.
In fact, we did not even have a bathroom inside. I had to
go outside and bathe with cold water from a barrel.”
	“Oooo, was it freezing?” asked Susan with a shiver.
	“Yes, it was freezing but it woke me up quickly.”
	Susan chuckled at the thought of bathing in icy cold
water.
	“Anyway,” continued Grandpa “we lived close to the
cane fields so I walked there every morning. It was a
25 nice cool walk. I remember how I loved to hear the birds
whistling. It was very quiet and peaceful at that time.”
	“Did your friends walk with you?” asked Susan.
	“No,” answered Grandpa, “They came in a truck. The
estate had a truck to pick up the workers who lived far
away. We started work at half past four. I had to cut the
canes and then put them into bundles.
	“Another man had to load the bundles into the back of
the truck. It was hard work. We only worked for five
hours each day. By half past nine I was finished.”
	“That is the time Mom starts work,” said Susan.
	“Yes,” said Grandpa. “Most people start work at nine.
But the reason we started so early had to do with the
sun. It was better to work before the sun got too hot.
Hard work in hot sun is not nice.”
	Grandpa George smiled as he spoke about his work in
the sugar cane fields. He was an old man now. He had
worked on those cane fields since he was 15 years old.
	Life was very different for children then. Many of them
did not go to school. Others went to school for a short
time and then had to go out to work like Grandpa.
	“You worked hard, Grandpa!” said Susan. “I’m glad
you can just rest now.”
	“So am I, Susan, so am I!"

