Lesson 31

What Do You Want To Be?

“What would you like to be when you grow up?” asked
Miss Arnold. The children eagerly raised their hands to
answer.
	“Rita, do you have an answer?” asked Miss Arnold.
	“Yes Miss, I would like to be a doctor,” answered Rita.
	“That's great, doctors are very important people,”
said Miss Arnold. “Who can tell me why we need
doctors?” Again the little hands shot up in the air.
	“Yes Mark, what do you think?”
	“My uncle is a doctor. He helps people to feel better.
When I caught a cold he gave me medicine and I felt
better. Whenever I get sick, he gives me medicine.”
	“That's right,” answered Miss Arnold. “Doctors help
sick people to get better. What other jobs do the rest of
you want to do?” It was Aman’s turn to answer.
	“I am going to be a pilot,” he said proudly. “I want to
fly a plane and travel to lots of different countries.”
	“That's a fantastic idea,” said Miss Arnold. “Pilots get
to visit many countries. But, they also have a very
important job. They are responsible for everyone in their
plane.”
	Janet's hand went up.
	“I would like to be a dressmaker,” she said. “I like to
help my Mom when she is sewing. She taught me how
to sew. I love to make clothes.”
	Miss Arnold smiled. “I also love to sew my clothes,”
she said, “I think that is an excellent idea Janet.”
	Then, Vick put his hand up.
	“Yes Vick, what is your dream job?” asked Miss
Arnold.
	“I want to be a gardener,” smiled Vick. “I love to plant
flowers and watch them grow.”
	“A gardener is another very important person,” said
Miss Arnold. “We need lots of plants and trees. My
daughter is a gardener. That's wonderful, Vick. What
about the rest of the class?”
	Martin’s hand went up. “I would like to be a teacher,”
he said with a big smile.
	“I was waiting for that,” said Miss Arnold with a grin.
“Why do you want to be a teacher, Martin?”
	“I want to be in charge of a class,” answered Martin.
“I like telling everyone what to do.”
	“Well, that’s interesting, Martin,” said Miss Arnold.
“Since I have to tell everyone what to do, let’s go out
and play!”
	“Yeah!” shouted the class. “Three cheers for teachers!
Hip, hip, hurray!”
