Lesson 32

Earthquake in Haiti

My name is Henri. I live in Port-au-Prince, which is the
capital of Haiti. In January 2010, there was a terrible
earthquake in our country. I heard that it was the worst
earthquake in many years. Haiti was already one of the
poorest islands in the Caribbean. Now, it is even poorer.
	I was riding my bike when the earthquake started. It
was about four o’clock on a Tuesday afternoon. I was
riding along my street. Then I saw the houses on the
street shaking. I heard the sound of galvanize falling all
around me. My bike was rocking from side to side. I
heard people screaming and crying for help. The rocking
and shaking seemed to go on for hours, although it was
really just a few minutes.
	Then it finally stopped. I saw houses falling apart and
crumbling to the ground. It all seemed very unreal,
almost like in the movies. At first I just stood there too
shocked to move. The people just kept running and
crying.
	I thought of my mother and sister at home. I rode as
quickly as I could to get to them. I was so scared that
they would be hurt. As I rode along the street, I could
only see more and more ruins from the fallen buildings.
Some of the cars had crashed into each other. And the people, 
the people were just crying and running. No one
knew what to do.
	I kept on riding. Then I came to a halt. There was
rubble from a big building all across the road. I had to
leave my bicycle. I ran over the rubble and down the
street. I saw a lady holding her little son and crying. Her
whole house was now a pile of board and dust. She was
begging for someone to help her and her son.
	I continued running. I needed to find my mother and
Marie. A man was calling out for help. He was trying to
get his sister out from under his house. She was inside
when the house collapsed. She got trapped under the
rubble. Some people went to help him. They were
moving the stones and pieces of wood. I wanted to stop
and help, but I was unable to. I started to worry more
about Mama and Marie. I hoped and prayed that they
were safe.
	It was just a little way again to my home. I passed my
friend’s home but the house was no longer there. I saw
my friend standing at his gate with his mother. They
were just looking at what used to be their house. It was
unbelievable.
	As I ran towards my own house, I looked up to see if it
was still there. My heart sank. I could not see anything
where my room used to be. We lived in a two-storey
house. My room was upstairs. I walked through the
gate. All I could see was bricks and stones. My house
was now just a mountain of concrete.
	I called out for my mother and Marie. No answer. All I
could hear was the screaming voices of people around. I
could not see my family anywhere. I ran around the
pieces of my home calling loudly. I was starting to panic.
I did not know where to begin. Everyone was trying to
help someone or to find their own family. I could not get
anyone to help me.
	I ran to the top of the rubble, looking everywhere for
mother and Marie. I kept shouting so they could hear
me. I knelt down on a piece of concrete and tried to look
down into the cracks. The tears in my eyes were
blinding me. I could not see clearly. My heart was
racing. What would I do if I did not find them?
	As I was wiping my eyes, I heard the sweetest sound.
lt was my mother’s voice! I looked around and saw my
mother and Marie coming in from the street. They were
out looking for me. I ran towards them and we hugged
each other for a long time. The tears of joy poured down
our cheeks. I was so happy to see my family alive.
	That day everyone in our town lost their homes and
their businesses. And many people lost family and friends.
Two days after the earthquake, we saw lots of
planes and helicopters in the sky. Mom said people were
coming to help us.
	Many countries were sending food, water and
equipment to help us to build back our houses. Mom
said there were many good people in the world.
Earthquakes are very destructive. They ruin buildings
and cause people to die. My country will take a long
time to get over this. But we are very grateful to all of
you good people out there who continue to help us
everyday. Thank you from Haiti!

