Lesson 30

Cricket, Lovely Cricket

“Shot boy!” shouted Old Man Harry. He was sitting on
a bench behind his house. He was looking at the boys
who were playing cricket. They were playing in the
savannah behind Old Man Harry’s house.
	Every day at about 4 o’clock the boys came to play.
Every day Old Man Harry watched and cheered and
clapped. The batsman hit the ball hard. “Four runs!”
shouted his team. “That’s it, we won!”
	The boys of the winning team were jumping for joy.
One boy started to sing a chorus. Old Man Harry
stopped and listened. He listened again.
	“Cricket, O how I love cricket,” sang the happy boy.
	A big smile covered Old Man Harry's face. It made him
remember a time long ago. He thought of a special time
when he was living in England. This is Old Man Harry's
story.
	In 1948 Harry left Trinidad and moved to England with
his family. He was a young intelligent man. He went to
England to study. Harry wanted to become a doctor. Life
in England was very strange. Harry missed his home
country. Everything was so different in England.
	The food was different and the weather was always
rainy and cold. Harry missed his warm sunny island. He
missed his tasty Trinidadian food. But most of all he 
missed his people.
	In Trinidad, Harry had many friends. In England he
had none. The people in England were very serious. 
They hardly spoke to him. It was hard for Harry to make
friends. 
	Then one day Harry heard that the West Indies Cricket an
team was playing in England. Harry got very excited. He
wanted to buy a ticket. It was very expensive but he 
saved his money and bought his ticket.
	On the day of the cricket match, Harry went early to
the cricket ground. It was a famous cricket ground called
Lord’s. He found his seat and sat quietly. There were
many people there. Most of the people were from
England. Everyone was just sitting and talking quietly.
	Harry thought about how different it used to be in
Trinidad. Cricket matches in the Queen’s Park Oval were
anything but quiet. People could hear the noise from
miles away. But this was England and there was no
noise. Harry was still happy that he was going to see his
favourite players.
	The West Indies Cricket team was not very popular
around the world then. They had never won a Test
match in England before. On this day no one was
expecting them to win.
	But what a surprise everyone got! There were two
new players called Sonny Ramadhin and Alf Valentine.
Sonny was from Trinidad and Alf was from Jamaica.
These two men were spin bowlers. They bowled out the
English team and shocked all of England. There were
three other players who became known as the three Ws.
They were Worrell, Weekes and Walcott from Barbados.
	The match was brought to an end. The West Indies
team had fought hard and won! Then, suddenly, Harry
heard a strange sound. It was the sound of a guitar and
a man singing a calypso. Everyone was looking at him.
	This was a very strange thing to see and hear at
Lord’s. The English people sat and looked. They did not
know what to do. But the West Indians knew. One by
one every West Indian in the crowd was walking
towards the man with the guitar.
	Every West Indian in the crowd was singing and
jumping and dancing — they were celebrating in West 
Indian style. The man with the guitar was the 
calypsonian Lord Kitchener.
	He led the West Indian fans all around London that En
night. They sang and they danced. They were not afraid.
They were not ashamed that people were looking at 
them. They were from the West Indies and they were 
proud.
	The song they sang was called ‘Cricket, Lovely
Cricket’.
	Old Man Harry opened his eyes again. That was a
special day for West Indies cricket, he thought. That was
a very special day for West Indians who were living in
England.